# 1.0 - Basic framework
This tutorial is meant to introduce the very basic functionality of the comfit Python package.

The class underlying everything is the class called `BaseSystem`. Every other model (classes located in the ./models/ folder) are subclasses of BaseSystem.

Let's start by importing the package

import comfit as cf
Now we can define a system with a given dimension and resolution
```python
sys1 = cf.BaseSystem(1,xRes=11)
```
`sys1` now contains a number of useful parameters and functions, lets print some of them.
```python
print(sys1.x)
```
```python
print(sys1.dx, sys1.dt)
```
Even though the system is one-dimensional in this case, it still contains some dummy variables related to y and z.
```python
print(sys1.y,sys1.dy,sys1.z,sys1.dz)
```
Of particular interest, perhaps, is the length scale parameter 

```python
print(sys1.a0)
```

Now, we can try to do some basic calculating and plotting

```python
import numpy as np
y = np.sin(sys1.x)
sys1.plot_field(y)
```

By changing the length scale to 
, we get something that clearly shows the periodicity.

```pyhthon
sys1.a0 = 2* np.pi
sys1.plot_field(y)
```

The function looks quite jagged, which we can fix by increasing the resolution and decreasing the interspacing dx

```python
sys2 = cf.BaseSystem(1,xRes=101,dx=0.1)
y2 = np.sin(sys2.x)
sys2.plot_field(y2)
```

Lets have a look at a 2D system and plot a 2D function

```py
sys2 = cf.BaseSystem(2,xRes=101,dx=0.1,yRes=101,dy=0.1)
field = sys2.x-1 + 0.7*sys2.y-5
sys2.plot_field(field)
```

Now, the very attentive python reader will have noticed something strange about the previous cell. Namely how is it possible that by adding two 1D arrays 
 and 
 do we produce a 2D array. The key lies in the way that these are stored. Let's look at them.

```python
print("x:\n",sys2.x)
```
```python
print("y:\n",sys2.y)
```
As you see, the x-array is stored as a 
 array, while the y-array is stored as 
. When doing calculations with arrays in this way, it is not necessary to create a meshgrid to produce a 2D matrix.

## Exercise 1
Plot the function 
$$
f(x,y) = \sin(x+y)
$$

 
## Exercise 2
Plot the function 
$$
f(x,y,z) = exp(-(x^2 + y^2 + z^2))
$$
 